# File Formats
ProjectTemplate can automatically load a variety of CSV-like file formats,
including compressed CSV files. In addition, automatic loading is supported
for the binary RData, Stata and SPSS file formats. Finally, ad hoc file
types support the loading of CSV files that are accessible over HTTP and
the automatic loading of data from MySQL tables.

N.B.: The SPSS and Stata file formats have not been tested yet. Because
ProjectTemplate is simply wrapping the 'foreign' library, they are expected
to work, but I have not confirmed this yet. Your mileage may vary.

# Supported File Extensions
* `.csv`: CSV files that use a comma separator.
* `.csv.bz2`: CSV files that use a comma separator and are compressed using bzip2.
* `.csv.zip`: CSV files that use a comma separator and are compressed using zip.
* `.csv.gz`: CSV files that use a comma separator and are compressed using gzip.
* `.tsv`: CSV files that use a tab separator.
* `.tsv.bz2`: CSV files that use a tab separator and are compressed using bzip2.
* `.tsv.zip`: CSV files that use a tab separator and are compressed using zip.
* `.tsv.gz`: CSV files that use a tab separator and are compressed using gzip.
* `.wsv`: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator.
* `.wsv.bz2`: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using bzip2.
* `.wsv.zip`: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using zip.
* `.wsv.gz`: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using gzip.
* `.RData`: .RData binary files produced by `save()`.
* `.rda`: .RData binary files produced by `save()`.
* `.url`: A YAML file that contains an HTTP URL and a separator specification for a remote dataset.
* `.sql`: A YAML file that contains database connection information for a MySQL database.
* `.sav`: Binary file format generated by SPSS.
* `.dta`: Binary file format generated by Stata.

# Ad Hoc File Types
## URL Files
You can access CSV files over HTTP using the `.url` file extension. Inside
of the `.url` file, you must place YAML that describes your data sources.
An example file is shown below.

    url: "http://www.johnmyleswhite.com/ProjectTemplate/sample_data.csv"
    separator: ","

## SQL Files
You can access database stored in a MySQL database using the `.sql` file
extension. Inside of the `.sql` file, you must place YAML that describes
the connection protocol for your database. An example file is shown below.

    type: mysql
    user: sample_user
    password: sample_password
    host: localhost
    dbname: sample_database
    table: sample_table
