Here you'll store your raw data files. If they are encoded in a supported file format, they'll automatically be loaded when you call `load.project()`.

Supported File Extensions
.csv: CSV files that use a comma separator.
.csv.bz2: CSV files that use a comma separator and are compressed using bzip2.
.csv.zip: CSV files that use a comma separator and are compressed using zip.
.csv.gz: CSV files that use a comma separator and are compressed using gzip.
.csv2: CSV files that use a semicolon separator.
.csv2.bz2: CSV files that use a semicolon separator and are compressed using bzip2.
.csv2.zip: CSV files that use a semicolon separator and are compressed using zip.
.csv2.gz: CSV files that use a semicolon separator and are compressed using gzip.
.tsv: CSV files that use a tab separator.
.tsv.bz2: CSV files that use a tab separator and are compressed using bzip2.
.tsv.zip: CSV files that use a tab separator and are compressed using zip.
.tsv.gz: CSV files that use a tab separator and are compressed using gzip.
.tab: CSV files that use a tab separator.
.tab.bz2: CSV files that use a tab separator and are compressed using bzip2.
.tab.zip: CSV files that use a tab separator and are compressed using zip.
.tab.gz: CSV files that use a tab separator and are compressed using gzip.
.wsv: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator.
.wsv.bz2: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using bzip2.
.wsv.zip: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using zip.
.wsv.gz: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using gzip.
.dat: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator.
.dat.bz2: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using bzip2.
.dat.zip: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using zip.
.dat.gz: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using gzip.
.txt: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator.
.txt.bz2: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using bzip2.
.txt.zip: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using zip.
.txt.gz: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using gzip.
.RData: .RData binary files produced by save().
.rda: .RData binary files produced by save().
.rds: .RDS binary files produced by saveRDS().
.R: R source code files.
.r: R source code files.
.url: A DCF file that contains an HTTP URL and a type specification for a remote dataset.
.sql: A DCF file that contains database connection information for a MySQL database.
.xls: XLS files.
.xlsx: XLSX files.
.sav: Binary file format generated by SPSS.
.dta: Binary file format generated by Stata.
.arff: Weka’s ARFF files.
.dbf: DBF files.
.rec: EPIInfo .rec files.
.mtp: MTP files.
.m: Octave files.
.sys: Systat files.
.syd: Systat files.
.sas: SAS Xport files.
.xport: SAS Xport files.
.xpt: SAS Xport files
.db: A SQLite3 database in binary format.
.file: A DCF file describing the location of another file that should be loaded.
.mp3: MP3 audio files. (Uses the tuneR package.)
.ppm: PPM image files. (Uses the pixmap package.)
.feather: Feather files for data frames in the Apache Arrow format (uses feather package)
