---
layout: page
---
ProjectTemplate can automatically load a variety of text based file formats, including comma separated value (CSV) files, tab separated value (TSV) files and generic whitespace separated value (WSV) files. In addition, automatic data loading is supported for several binary file formats, including the RData, SPSS, Stata and SAS formats.

Beyond those file formats, several ad hoc file types support the loading of data sets that are accessible over HTTP or contained in SQL databases, such as MySQL and sqlite.

Please note that several of file formats have not been tested yet, including Weka files, DBF files, EPIInfo files, MTP files, Octave files, Systat files and SAS files. Because ProjectTemplate is simply wrapping the 'foreign' package, these file formats are expected to work, but we have not confirmed that yet. Your mileage may vary.

#### Supported File Extensions

* `.csv`: CSV files that use a comma separator.
* `.csv.bz2`: CSV files that use a comma separator and are compressed using bzip2.
* `.csv.zip`: CSV files that use a comma separator and are compressed using zip.
* `.csv.gz`: CSV files that use a comma separator and are compressed using gzip.
* `.csv2`: CSV files that use a semicolon separator.
* `.csv2.bz2`: CSV files that use a semicolon separator and are compressed using bzip2.
* `.csv2.zip`: CSV files that use a semicolon separator and are compressed using zip.
* `.csv2.gz`: CSV files that use a semicolon separator and are compressed using gzip.
* `.tsv`: CSV files that use a tab separator.
* `.tsv.bz2`: CSV files that use a tab separator and are compressed using bzip2.
* `.tsv.zip`: CSV files that use a tab separator and are compressed using zip.
* `.tsv.gz`: CSV files that use a tab separator and are compressed using gzip.
* `.tab`: CSV files that use a tab separator.
* `.tab.bz2`: CSV files that use a tab separator and are compressed using bzip2.
* `.tab.zip`: CSV files that use a tab separator and are compressed using zip.
* `.tab.gz`: CSV files that use a tab separator and are compressed using gzip.
* `.wsv`: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator.
* `.wsv.bz2`: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using bzip2.
* `.wsv.zip`: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using zip.
* `.wsv.gz`: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using gzip.
* `.dat`: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator.
* `.dat.bz2`: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using bzip2.
* `.dat.zip`: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using zip.
* `.dat.gz`: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using gzip.
* `.txt`: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator.
* `.txt.bz2`: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using bzip2.
* `.txt.zip`: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using zip.
* `.txt.gz`: CSV files that use an arbitrary whitespace separator and are compressed using gzip.
* `.RData`: .RData binary files produced by `save()`.
* `.rda`: .RData binary files produced by `save()`.
* `.R`: R source code files.
* `.r`: R source code files.
* `.url`: A DCF file that contains an HTTP URL and a type specification for a remote dataset.
* `.sql`: A DCF file that contains database connection information for a MySQL database.
* `.xls`: XLS files.
* `.xlsx`: XLSX files.
* `.sav`: Binary file format generated by SPSS.
* `.dta`: Binary file format generated by Stata.
* `.arff`: Weka's ARFF files.
* `.dbf`: DBF files.
* `.rec`: EPIInfo .rec files.
* `.mtp`: MTP files.
* `.m`: Octave files.
* `.sys`: Systat files.
* `.syd`: Systat files.
* `.sas`: SAS Xport files.
* `.xport`: SAS Xport files.
* `.xpt`: SAS Xport files
* `.db`: A SQLite3 database in binary format.
* `.file`: A DCF file describing the location of another file that should be loaded.
* `.mp3`: MP3 audio files. (Uses the tuneR package.)
* `.ppm`: PPM image files. (Uses the pixmap package.)

#### Ad Hoc File Types

##### URL Files
You can access CSV files over HTTP using the `.url` file extension. Inside
of the `.url` file, you must place DCF that describes your data sources.
An example file is shown below:

        url: http://www.johnmyleswhite.com/ProjectTemplate/sample_data.csv

##### SQL Files
ProjectTemplate supports access to many of the most common databases. All databases use the `.sql` file extension. Inside of the `.sql` file, you must place DCF that describes the connection protocol for your database. Example files for the support databases are shown below.

###### MySQL:
        type: mysql
        user: sample_user
        password: sample_password
        host: localhost
        dbname: sample_database
        table: sample_table

###### SQLite:
        type: sqlite
        dbname: /path/to/sample_database
        table: sample_table

        type: sqlite
        dbname: /path/to/sample_database
        query: SELECT * FROM users WHERE user_active == 1
				
###### PostgreSQL:
        type: postgres
        user: sample_user
        password: sample_password
        host: localhost
        dbname: sample_database
        table: sample_table

###### ODBC:
        type: odbc
        dsn: sample_dsn
        user: sample_user
        password: sample_password
        dbname: sample_database
        query: SELECT * FROM sample_table

###### Oracle:
        type: oracle
        user: sample_user
        password: sample_password
        dbname: sample_database
        table: sample_table

###### JDBC:
        type: jdbc
        class: org.jdbc.OracleDriver
        classpath: /path/to/ojdbc5.jar (or set in CLASSPATH)
        user: scott
        password: tiger
        url: jdbc:oracle:thin:@@myhost:1521:orcl
        query: SELECT * FROM emp

###### Heroku PostgreSQL:
This is a special case of the JDBC driver. It requires the current [PostgreSQL JDBC jar file](http://jdbc.postgresql.org/download.html).

        type: heroku
        classpath: /path/to/jdbc4.jar (or set in CLASSPATH)
        user: scott
        password: tiger
        host: heroku.postgres.url
        port: 1234
        dbname: herokudb 
        query: select * from emp

##### .file Files
You can load data that is not stored in the current project using a `.file` file. You must specify the path and the extension that the file would have, if it were being loaded by the standard ProjectTemplate auto-loader. An example is shown below that would load an SQLite3 database stored in a separate location:

        path: /path/to/sample_database
        extension: db

#### Future Support For Data Sources

It is possible to provide support for new data sources by hooking into
ProjectTemplate.
The [ElasticSearch reader](https://github.com/KentonWhite/esReader) is a working
example of how to achieve this.  We are looking forward to linking to your
custom readers for new data sources, such as SQL Server, MongoDB or CouchDB.
Please use the [mailing list](./mailing_list.html) to get in touch with us.
